---
layout: post
title: 'Notes on Mastering Bitcoin: Programming the Open Blockchain, 2nd Edition'
category: Notes
tags: [computer, blockchain, bitcoin, cryptocurrency, programming]
---
*Mastering Bitcoin: Programming the Open Blockchain* is a book written by [Andreas M. Antonopoulos](https://aantonop.com/). The second edition was published in 2017.

- toc
{: toc }

## Preface

### Intended Audience

This book is mostly intended for coders, but the first few chapters are also suitable as an in-depth introduction to bitcoin for noncoders.

### Code Examples

> The examples are illustrated in Python, C++, and using the command line of a Unix-like operating system such as Linux or macOS.

All code snippets are available in this [repo](https://github.com/bitcoinbook/bitcoinbook).

## Chapter 1. Introduction

### What Is Bitcoin?

> Bitcoin consists of:
>
> - A decentralized peer-to-peer network (the bitcoin protocol)
> - A public transaction ledger (the blockchain)
> - A set of rules for independent transaction validation and currency issuance (consensus rules)
> - A mechanism for reaching global decentralized consensus on the valid blockchain (Proof-of-Work algorithm)

### History of Bitcoin

Bitcoin combined several prior inventions such as [b-money](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/bmoney.asp) and [HashCash](http://www.hashcash.org/). The key innovation was a [“Proof-of-Work” algorithm](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/proof-work.asp), which elegantly solves the issue of double-spend.

### Getting Started

#### Choosing a Bitcoin Wallet

[bitcoin.org](https://bitcoin.org/) had made a [helper](https://bitcoin.org/en/choose-your-wallet) to help you choose a Bitcoin wallet.

#### Quick Start

A wallet is simply a collection of addresses and the keys that unlock the funds within.

## Chapter 2. How Bitcoin Works

### Bitcoin Transactions

#### Transaction Inputs and Outputs

A transaction can be viewed as a double-entry bookkeeping:

{% include image.html name="double-entry-ledger.jpg" %}

The implied transaction fee is a small payment collected by the miner who includes the transaction in the ledger.

#### Transaction Chains

Transactions form a chain, where the output of a transaction is the input of the next transaction.

{% include image.html name="transaction-chain.jpg" %}

#### Common Transaction Forms

{% include image.html name="common-transaction.jpg" %}
{% include image.html name="aggregating-transaction.jpg" %}

An aggregating transaction represents the real-world equivalent of exchanging a pile of coins and currency notes for a single larger note. Transactions like these are sometimes generated by wallet applications to clean up lots of smaller amounts that were received as change for payments.

{% include image.html name="distributing-transaction.jpg" %}

A distributing transaction is sometimes used by commercial entities to distribute funds, such as when processing payroll payments to multiple employees.

### Bitcoin Mining

A transaction created by a wallet would be propagated on the bitcoin network. It does not become part of the blockchain until it is verified and included in a block by a process called *mining*.

Mining validates a transaction through solving a mathematical problem. A successful miner will collect a reward in the form of new bitcoin and transaction fees. Thus, the mining process serves two purposes:

1. It provides security for bitcoin transactions.
2. It creates new bitcoin in each block, almost like a central bank printing new money.

### Mining Transactions in Blocks

When a miner receives a transaction, it puts the transaction into a pool of unverified transactions. As soon as a miner receives the previous block from the network, knowing it has lost the previous round of competition, it immediately constructs a new block, adds all unverified transactions from the pool into the block, and starts calculating the Proof-of-Work. Once it finds a solution, it will announce it to the network.

Each miner includes a special transaction in its block that pays its own bitcoin address the block reward plus the sum of transaction fees from all the transactions included in the block. If it finds a solution that makes that block valid, it “wins” this reward.

<small>How does the miner handle fake transactions?</small>

> As the blocks pile on top of each other, it becomes exponentially harder to reverse the transaction, thereby making it more and more trusted by the network.

## Chapter 3. Bitcoin Core: The Reference Implementation
